While you are a full-time registered student at the University of Nottingham, you do not need to pay council tax.

The university sends a list of exempt students to local councils so you will not need to inform them that you are a student. However, if you do not live in the local area, you will have to request a council tax exemption certificate.

Accommodation charge due dates for students staying in University of Nottingham halls or UPP Broadgate Park are displayed on the instalment dates webpage.

The easiest way to pay is online via the NottinghamHub. Once you have activated your university IT account, you can log in, choose the 'Finance' tile then select 'Pay amount due'. If no charge is showing, you can still make a payment by entering the amount they wish to pay in the payment box. More information on paying fees can be found here.

Students staying at Bonington Student Village, Riverside Point, Raleigh Park, Nottingham Two, Deakins Place, St Peters Court, Madison Gardens, Triumph House, Morriss House, University of Derby (healthcare students) or University of Lincoln students should contact their accommodation provider directly for information.

Our Accommodation Services team are available to visit in B05 of the Portland Building. The office is open from 9am – 5pm Monday to Thursday and 9am – 4pm on Friday.

You can contact the team on Live Chat via the accommodation website between 9:30am and 4:30pm Monday to Thursday, and 9:30am and 4:00pm on Friday.

If you have any queries and wish to contact the team by email you can do so by completing the enquiry form here, the team aim to respond within two working days.

Alternatively, if you would like to speak with an Accommodation Officer face to face, you can book an online team appointment here.

To apply for University of Nottingham accommodation, an applicant will need to have the University of Nottingham as their firm choice. The process to apply for accommodation will be confirmed in offer emails.

You will need to contact the accommodation team who can support you with this. Please contact the team via live chat which is available from 9:30am to 4:30pm Monday to Thursday, and 9:30am to 4:00pm on Friday. Please type ‘Speak to a human’ and you will be put through to a member of the accommodation team. All contact information for the accommodation team can be found here.

If you are providing evidence regarding an extenuating circumstances outcome prior to an exam board taking place, this will be referred to the extenuating circumstances process for consideration and the appeal will be closed.

We recommend you contact UON Students’ Union for advice. You will need to give the information as per their website.

If you need any adjustments to support you accessing any stage of the academic appeals process, you should email the Investigations and Resolution team outlining what adjustments would be useful.

The appeals procedure should be completed within 90 days from receipt of your appeal. Sometimes it is not possible to respond within these timescales. If this is the case, the Investigations and Resolution team will keep you updated by email on when they think they will be able to send you a response.

If you are appealing against your final degree classification, it’s unlikely that you will get a response to your appeal before graduation. If that’s the case, you can attend your ceremony if you have registered and graduate with the classification your exam board has awarded. If, subsequently, your appeal is upheld and the outcome is a revised classification, our records will be updated and a replacement certificate will be issued.

You can access Blue Castle by following this link and logging in using your university username and password.

Yes, you can. Where you have undertaken a resit or first sit for a module that you originally took in a previous academic year, your new mark will show against the module in the previous year. This is the case whether you have done the resit or first sit in attendance or not in attendance. The exception to this rule is any modules you are taking for the actual first time; the marks for these will show in the current academic year on Blue Castle.

Following each main assessment period, marks will be released on Blue Castle.

You can find out more information, including release dates here.

If you have forgotten your password you can reset it by answering your security profile questions here.

For further help, contact the Digital and Technology Services by phone: +44 (0)115 95 16677 (24 hours a day), or log a self-service request here.

The Blue Castle system could be busy which could be why you are unable to log in. The system retries every thirty seconds so please try again and remain logged on until you get through.

If you are on a wireless connection to the university’s network please check that you are on the UoN Secure network rather than the UoN Guest network.

Please note if there are significant issues, there will be a notice on the IT Status Page. If you still don’t get through, or you’ve been trying for a while, please contact Digital and Technical Services by either phone: +44 (0)115 95 16677 (Monday to Friday, 8am to 5pm), or logging the issue using the Self-Service Portal.

Internet Explorer is no longer supported by Microsoft. Use an alternative browser such as Microsoft Edge or Google Chrome.

Marks and other information may be released later for some students.

It is dependent on your School having returned all of the marks information. As soon as it is available it will be published, so keep checking back.

Once published, you will be able to check the examination timetable to find out your resit location, if required. We will notify you when it is released in advance of each assessment period.

For reassessment on coursework, please refer to Moodle for more information.

You will be entered for all modules you are enrolled on that have an examination attached to it – be that an in-person or e-exam. You are therefore advised to check your NottinghamHub account to ensure the modules you are registered for are correct.

Please note just because you have Moodle access to a module does not necessarily mean you are formally enrolled on it, so that is why checking NottinghamHub is so important.

Ensure that you check your timetable very carefully. If you notice anything missing please contact the Exams Office through the student enquiry centre.

For more information please go to the Examination Timetables and Key Dates webpage.

If there is an examination missing on your timetable you should first check that your module entries are correct on your NottinghamHub student account.

You can raise an enquiry here about missing examinations. Please make sure to quote the module code of any missing exams when submitting your enquiry.

During the period you are registered you will also be eligible to apply for university Bursaries/Scholarships and Hardship Funds.

If you have a status of ‘resit - not in attendance’ you are not required to complete online registration for the relevant academic session with the University.

It is similar to being ‘suspended’ or ‘interrupted’ for a period of time, the only activity you are required to do is in relation to sitting your reassessments. You may be doing resits or first sits, these will be clarified in your Blue Castle account.

During the period your attendance status is ‘resit-not in attendance’ you are not usually entitled to receive any statutory support from the Government via the Student Loans Company (SLC).

There is no tuition fee loan for the period, but you will also not be charged any standard tuition fee by the University, although there may be a resit fee to pay. The rates of resit fees are outlined in the ‘Other Fees you may need to pay’ section on the Tuition Fees webpage.

If you are registered at the university for part of the year, then you may be eligible for funding for that period and will be liable for any tuition fee charged by the university. However, this will count as a full year’s funding when Student Finance calculates your years of entitlement.

The University will not pay any Bursary and/or Scholarship while your status is ‘resit - not in attendance’.

You may be liable for council tax during the resit not in attendance period, as you are not a registered student.

Please contact the Financial Support Team for more information relating to this process.

When you take reassessments not in attendance, your marks for any assessments taken will appear against last years modules in Blue Castle. This is just to keep the marks together for easier reference rather than split them across two academic years.

You will not have any module details or marks listed in the current academic year if you are ‘not in attendance’ all year as you will not be enrolled in any modules.

The university does not allow re-marking as all grades are considered a matter of academic judgment.

If you require further feedback, contact your marker/convenor.

Likewise, there is no opportunity to “make-up” credits or marks, or to submit a substitute assessment to gain a better mark.

If you wish to appeal your outcome, please refer to the Appeals Guidance to establish whether you have grounds, you have 30 working days from the time you receive your outcome to put in an appeal.

After resit results are released on BlueCastle on 24 September, you will then be sent an invite to register by email. The earliest the email will be sent is Thursday 26 September but please allow a few days after your resit results are released to receive this email. Please ensure you check your junk/spam folder in case it filters to there.

Once you have completed online registration, our systems will update overnight and Student Finance England will be notified of your registration. This will enable them to release any funding your are due from them. Please note that this can then take three to five days to arrive to your bank account.

Once registered, you will be able to complete online module enrolment - this needs to be done by Friday 4 October at 5pm. Any new or changes to module choices will take a little while to show on your personal timetable. Likewise it will take a little bit of time for Moodle to update - please allow until 9 October for this to happen.

The Support and Wellbeing teams work alongside your personal tutor (or Here for You Guide) / supervisor and other university support systems to help you have a healthy approach to your studies and can provide practical advice and guidance on a wide range of issues. They can help you find the right support service and offer advice on policies and processes relating to your studies.

You will need to check with your module convenor if a calculator can be used during your exam.

If your exam does require a calculator, please read our guidance notes for a specific list of calculators that can be used. Using a non-approved calculator will be treated as academic misconduct.

The exams office are unable to cancel or rearrange any examinations. If you know in advance that you will not be able to sit your examination, you should notify your school.

You may also wish to consult the university’s policy on extenuating circumstances.

First sit is a term we use to describe the ‘first opportunity’ to take an assessment.

First sits can be granted as a result of an approved Extenuating Circumstances (EC) claim. In this instance, a first sit is an opportunity to re-take assessments affected by ECs as if for the first time. There is no fee for first sits granted.

Finalists taking first sits in August will not be eligible to graduate in July.

Graduation for these students will be delayed until the next in person event in December, or inter-ceremony (remote) graduation. For up to date information on Graduation, please see the Graduation UoN webpages.

If you are awarded a first sit as a result of an EC, your original work (if submitted) will not be marked, or the mark will be voided. The original assessments submitted (for exam or coursework) will not be marked/the mark will be voided.

If you are uncertain as to the level of impact of your situation and you are well enough to try sitting your exam, please do so.

Remember you have 5 working days following your exam within which to submit your EC claim so you have time to decide on the level of impact.

Equally, if you are not well enough to sit your exam, please don't.

Please bring a form of photographic identification to your exam, your student ID card is fine.

It is your responsibility to bring the correct stationery to your exam. Failure to do so may result in you not being able to sit the exam.

Stationery required includes pens, pencils, highlighters, erasers, pencil sharpener, ruler, coloured pencils and permitted calculators.

Standard, non-electronic ear plugs are permitted during exams provided they are brought to the exam location in the clear plastic bag they arrive in.

You can bring water in a clear plastic bottle. You can also bring snacks such as fruit or sweets. But you should avoid bringing any foods with an overpowering smell or anything in a loud/rustling packet.

Some ExamSys exams are taking place remotely, whilst others are on campus. Please check your timetable to find out which applies to your modules. On campus: invigilators will be available to assist if there are any technical issues during your exam. Online: For online ExamSys, please read the helpful guide. Please note you will notice a discrepancy between the duration stated on your exam timetable and the duration that shows on the start screen of your exam and on your countdown timer.

Plan where you're doing the exam - ensure a good internet connection (Note: A poor internet signal at home may not be accepted as an Extenuating Circumstance if you had the option to take the exam on campus) Use Test Your Text to practice uploading Be prepared: Check the submission checklist, the student help guidance and the blog post: top ten tips for preparing for online exams.

The time permitted for your E-Exam includes 30 minutes for uploading work. This means the deadline on Moodle for your E-Exam will be the correct deadline (unless stated otherwise).

Work submitted after the deadline (inclusive of the 30 minutes mentioned above) will receive a mark of zero unless there is an approved extenuating circumstances claim submitted within the appropriate timescales (seven calendar days from the date of your assessment for exams, anytime before the deadline for coursework).

The purpose of the 30 minutes offered is to allow for IT issues that may sometimes occur at the time of uploading work.

Extenuating Circumstances (ECs) will not be approved if your work is late but you only started to upload your work during the last few minutes.

Continue answering the paper, stating any assumptions made On completion of the exam, please contact your Assessment team in Registry and Academic Affairs (formerly Student Services) via Live Chat, Student Enquiry Centre, or 0115 74 86500 with details of the suspected error. This will then be communicated to your School who will ensure any issues are reviewed as part of the moderation process. Clearly state the module for which you have a query in the subject of the message.

Contact the Assessments Team in Registry and Academic Affairs via the Student Enquiry Centre or Tel: 0115 748 6500 lines are open between 10am and 4pm.

Long term, unexpected internet failure that could not be avoided may be considered for Extenuating Circumstances, but only if there was no option for you to take the exam on campus.

Please note that attempts to misuse or take unfair advantage of this system will be thoroughly investigated and, if proven, will constitute academic misconduct, and severe penalties may be imposed.

The type of exam that you are taking will determine what is on your desk. There will always be a desk card, which you must complete and sign. In written exams, you will have an exam paper and an answer booklet. You may also have additional material such as graph paper, law statutes, charts etc.

If the exam is a Multiple Choice Question paper (MCQ) you will have an MCQ answer sheet instead of an answer book please be aware that all MCQs need to be completed in pencil, so please ensure that you bring a pencil to every exam.

If the exam is an ExamSys (online) exam, you will be sat at a computer. The questions will be online so you won’t necessarily have a question paper/answer book, but you will be provided with scrap paper to make notes on.

You must ensure that you bring all stationary you require, including calculators.

Check the front cover of your exam paper (known as the rubric) which provides you with information about the exam paper that you are sitting (module number, module title, semester and academic year).

The rubric will also list any additional materials which will be provided for the examination (eg MCQ answer sheet, statutes, charts, etc.)

Please make sure the above information matches the details on the desk card. If you believe you are missing any materials, or any details are incorrect, please raise your hand to inform the invigilator.

Some noise in the exam room is normal given the number of students sitting an exam. This may include students arriving late/leaving early and there is a need for invigilators to collect materials.

There may also be minor noise from outside the exam room for short periods during an exam.

More serious disturbances would be investigated by the invigilator(s) to ensure that these are resolved as quickly as possible and, where appropriate, the Exams Office would be informed.

Please note, there are no fire alarm tests during the exam period. If you hear the fire alarm, please remain calm and follow the instructions given by the invigilator.

If you are unwell during an exam, raise your hand and wait for the invigilator to come to your desk. If you are too ill to continue then you will be accompanied from the exam room. You will not be free to leave unaccompanied until the first hour of the exam has passed, although, if you are a registered patient at Cripps Health Centre, you can be taken there during Health Centre opening hours.

After the first hour has passed you will be allowed to leave if you are well enough to go. If you are able to continue with the exam after a period of time for recovery, you will be allowed.

However, you will not be given any additional time to complete your exam. You may wish to submit an Extenuating Circumstance claim, Information about extenuating circumstances can be found on the Extenuating Circumstances webpage.

In some circumstances, you may be able to leave your exam early.

If your exam is taking place for 60 minutes or less, you are unable to leave early.

If your exam is longer than 60 minutes, you can leave early. However, this cannot be during the first hour or last 15 minutes of the exam. If you do decide to leave early, please note the following:

You should not leave your desk to take your answer booklet to the invigilator You should not remove your answer book from the exam

Invigilators will announce when you have 15 minutes remaining of your exam. At the end of those 15 minutes, the invigilator will announce the end of the exam and ask you to stop writing.

You are expected to stop writing your answers immediately at this point.

The only writing permitted after the exam is finished, is to complete the front cover of your answer book or write your ID number on any supplementary answer books. Failure to follow this instruction may result in academic misconduct.

Please stay in your seat and remain silent until you are told that you can leave by the invigilator.

We are sorry that there was something that impacted your exam performance. We are committed to ensure students have a positive exam experience, and we would like more information on the issues that impacted your performance.

Your support request will then be available to view by the Disability Support Services Team only. A Disability Adviser of Specialist Study Support Tutor will review the documents you have shared. They may be able to confirm your Alternative Exam Adjustments (AEA)s and activate your Support Plan or they may wish to arrange an appointment to discuss it further. If so, they will be in contact via email. Once your Support Plan is confirmed, you will receive email confirmation and you will also be able to view the arrangements in NottinghamHub.

If you're a current student with a Support Plan and wish to book an appointment with your Disability Advisor or Specialist Study Strategies Tutor, please book via StudentLife.

For all other enquiries email Disability Support disability-supportservices@nottingham.ac.uk (please include your university ID number / UCAS number if an applicant).

Alternatively, you can call us on 0115 823 2070 - phone lines are open 9am-12pm, Monday-Friday only.

We are here to help you if you have a disability, mental health difficulty, long-term medical condition, autistic spectrum condition, or a specific learning difference such as dyslexia, dyspraxia, dyscalculia or ADHD. Our student-led support enables students with Support Plans to flourish as independent learners.

The Disability Support Services team provides a large variety of support options, which are detailed on their webpage.

All information on how to apply, along with other information on DSA, can be found on our website here.

There are two different types of transcripts: graduate transcripts and provisional transcripts. You can order these online by visiting the Official Documents page.

During your time at the University you may be asked to confirm your status as a current student. A confirmation of student status letter will verify your course details, start date, tuition fee, expected completion date and graduation date (if applicable). To find out more and to request a letter, please visit the Official Documents page.

If you are an UG or PGT student and want to find out more or wish to request a letter, please visit the Official Documents page here. PGR students (PhD, Professional Doctorates, MRes, etc) should visit the PGR website, here, to order a letter.

To get a letter to open a student bank account, you first need to be fully registered with the university (applicants are not eligible to order this document).

Please make sure your home and term time addresses are up-to-date in NottinghamHub (including your room or flat number if appropriate) as banks will not accept letters with incomplete addresses.

If you are an UG or PGT student and want to find out more or wish to request a letter, please visit the Official Documents page here. PGR students (PhD, Professional Doctorates, MRes, etc) should visit the PGR website, here, to order a letter.

Please be aware that at busy period, such as at the start of the year, demand for these letters is high, so please be patient while these are produced, and five working days for this to be sent to you.

Once students become fully registered, they will automatically receive a formal email confirming that they have registered. The email will include details of the course they are registered on and is of a similar format to a Confirmation of Student Status letter. If you are an UG or PGT student and want to find out more or wish to request a letter, please visit the Official Documents page here. PGR students (PhD, Professional Doctorates, MRes, etc) should visit the PGR website, here, to order a letter.

If you are planning on travelling overseas during your studies, you may be required to obtain a visa letter from the university. If you are an UG or PGT student and want to find out more or wish to request a letter that can be used to obtain a visa, please visit the Official Documents page here. PGR students (PhD, Professional Doctorates, MRes, etc) should visit the PGR website, here, to order a letter.

We are able to send some documents electronically by secure file transfer to WES. The Documents that can be sent electronically are:

Confirmation of Degree Letter – a letter that confirms your dates of study, degree awarded and graduation date. This can be emailed to yourself or a third party.

Graduate Transcript – list of modules and marks, degree awarded and graduation date. This can only be emailed directly to a third party using an official institution or company email address. Unfortunately, due to our fraud prevention policy we are not able to email transcripts directly to graduates.

Please note that if you require a duplicate of your Diploma Supplement or Degree Certificate sending to WES then it can only be provided in printed format.

To obtain these documents it will be necessary for you to place an order via our Online Store. Please see the Official Documents and Letters webpage.

Please note that if you have not previously used the Online Store, part of the process will require you to complete customer registration and choose an email address and password.

Once you are fully registered, you will receive a confirmation email that is in a similar format to our student status letters, and may be all you require.

Log into the student enquiry centre and re-open your claim by selecting the Claim Number link (they start ‘UoN-000’) Scroll down to the bottom of your claim and upload your file using the ‘Add Note or Attach file’ option, add the file: and submit. The assessment team will be notified of your newly uploaded evidence and will ensure the panel is notified ready for review.

The portal system changed on 14th December. Due to these changes, claims can only be amended whilst you are working on it and before submission.

Make sure you have all the necessary information with you before you start a claim as the autosave function is no longer available. You can move back and forth through the form prior to submission and most fields will remain editable during this time. The only difference is on the 'Assessments Affected' page.

If you made a mistake in the Assessments Affected section, once you submit each entry you can now delete the entry and add a replacement one, but only prior to submission. The delete button is on the far right of the Assessments Affected table - you will need to scroll all the way across to the far right to find it (as below):

For the majority of claims evidence is a requirement, however in some specific cases you may be able to submit your claim using the Self Certification route - there is a flowchart on the Extenuating Circumstances Student Services page to help you work out whether your claim will require evidence to support your claim.

Once you have submitted a claim, log into the student enquiry centre and you will be able to see the list of enquiries and EC claims you have previously submitted.

As your claim progresses the 'status reason' will change. Our responses will also appear in the claim. See 'What is a status reason?' for a list of the status reasons used and what they mean.

Once your EC claim has been submitted, the only amendments you can make independently are to:

Upload further evidence/documents Add a conversation note

Other than these two activities, you cannot edit any other detail on claims independently through the portal, however our assessment teams can help.

Let us know the amendments/corrections you need, and our teams will amend your form or advise as appropriate.

You have two ways to let us know:
Adding a conversation note to let the administration team know the amendments you require.
OR
Submit an enquiry to the assessments team (as long as you choose any of the assessments categories the enquiry will get to the right team!)

There is always a risk that you might not receive your extension outcome until after the original deadline, particularly at busy times of year (eg. ahead of key assessment periods).

If this happens, the Extenuating Circumstances policy (Meeting Coursework Deadlines) clearly states that if you have not received a decision on your EC claim by the original deadline you must submit the work you have completed to date so that, if necessary it can form the assessment.

Where this is the case and you are submitting work by the original deadline, please ensure you include the words EC Pending in the filename submitted.

This will inform the marker that this is your work in progress and that (if your extension is approved) there will be another piece of work submitted.

You are then recommended to continue working on your assignment to take full advantage of any additional time, if granted.

If your extension is approved (and you submitted work in progress by the original deadline) you may need the Assessments team to re-open your submission box to allow for further submissions. This won't always be the case though

Check Moodle once your receive your outcome and if you find this is the case, raise an enquiry via the student enquiry centre to ask for your submission box to be re-opened. Keep checking Moodle and submit your work by the approved extension deadline to avoid penalties.

According to the EC Procedure, evidence should usually be provided at the time of making the extenuating circumstances claim, but may be submitted up to 10 working days from the deadline/examination.

In the case of coursework extensions, make sure you submit work you have done by the original deadline, adding the term ‘EC Pending’ to the filename. This will indicate to the staff member marking your work that you have a pending EC.

It can exceptionally be provided later than this, but any extension to the evidence deadline must be approved in advance by the extenuating circumstances panel and cannot in any case be more than 10 working days after the extenuating circumstances deadline.

Extensions of the deadline to provide evidence will be confirmed to you in writing.

For more detail on Timescales for submitting evidence, please refer to the ‘Timescales’ section in the EC Procedure.

During your time with us you might experience significant personal difficulties.

Extenuating circumstances (ECs) are events that affect your performance in assessments which are unforeseen and out of your control. Our EC procedure is intended to support students with these exceptional, short-term circumstances.

In the first instance we recommend that you notify, for example, your Personal Tutor (or Here for You Guide), PhD supervisor or the Support and Wellbeing team, as soon as possible.

These people will be able to provide advice and direct you to appropriate procedures or support services, if applicable.

If you’ve discussed your circumstances and you identify you need to make a claim under the Extenuating Circumstances procedure, you will need to let us know by raising an extenuating circumstances claim via the student enquiry centre. Your claim will be reviewed and you’ll be informed of the outcome of your claim via email.

Students may self-certificate absence from an examination(s) for a maximum of two consecutive calendar days in an examination period, using the extenuating circumstances (EC) claim form.

For coursework, some assessments are eligible for a no evidence short extension of up to five working days. More information here.

Your school should have notified you of any action they have taken as a result of a claim, but if they have not, you should contact them in the first instance. It might also be appropriate to appeal. You can find information on the appeals process here.

The Education Advisers in the Students’ Union offer help and advice if you are considering appealing or submitting late claims of extenuating circumstances. Contact details for this service are found online.

The decision of the EC Panel is final unless new evidence has emerged since your claim was decided. If this is the case you may submit your further evidence for consideration by the school EC panel.

See also What does ‘reassessment in attendance’ mean?

If you would like to ask a more specific question, please do so by submitting an enquiry via the student enquiry centre where your local Assessments team will pick up your query and respond as soon as possible.

For more information please see the EC Regulations and EC Procedure.

For more information please see the EC Regulations and EC Procedure.

The EC panel in your school will make a recommendation to the Examination Board as soon as possible, that a case be made to Quality and Standards Committee (QSC) to revisit your performance in earlier years for the purposes of recommending a degree classification outside regulations.

A recommendation to the Quality Standards Committee does not in itself guarantee approval.

You will be informed of the outcome once the case has been considered by QSC. This referral process can be lengthy and you may be asked for some information along the way to support your case. We appreciate your help and patience.

You will be contacted by the assessment team or your school if we need any additional information from you, otherwise no further action is required.

If you would like to ask a more specific question, please do so by submitting an enquiry via the Student Enquiry Centre where your local Assessments team will pick up your query and respond as soon as possible.

The grounds cited in your claim have been identified as not acceptable in line with the extenuating circumstances policy, therefore your claim has been rejected.

Your claim has not been approved because the evidence provided does not cover the relevant period you have claimed for. If you can obtain evidence that does cover the relevant period, you can submit for further review by the Extenuating Circumstances panel without submitting an appeal.

If you appeal the decision, you will be expected to provide evidence that covers the relevant period for the appeal to be considered – any appeals must be raised within a month of receiving your outcome.

Once you have received an outcome on a claim, send any follow up messages by raising an enquiry, quoting the UoN reference number of your claim. You can upload documents to an enquiry – these will all be picked up by the team who deal with the Extenuating Circumstances claims.

If you would like to ask a more specific question, please do so by submitting an enquiry via the Student Enquiry Centre where your local Assessments team will pick up your query and respond as soon as possible.

You will be allowed an additional reassessment attempt at the examination or coursework, which will count as your first resit attempt.

Any original work completed will not be marked, or the mark will be voided. You must attend this first sit to gain a mark for this assessment.

Reassessments will normally take place in the next reassessment period. Where this differs you will be notified.

NOTE: Moodle will contain all data on whether the resit will be in person or an online exam.

For online exams, Moodle will be updated in advance of the exam period with the correct date, time and duration in addition to the master/personal exam timetables.

In some schools, resits take a different format to the original assessment – see Moodle for details.

The exam timetable is usually released a few weeks ahead of the exam period – your resit should be identified correctly both on Blue Castle and in your timetable.

If you would like to ask a more specific question, please do so by submitting an enquiry via the student enquiry centre where your local Assessments team will pick up your query and respond as soon as possible.

Find more information on the EC Regulation and EC Procedure here.

You have been granted an extension to the deadline.

The new agreed deadline will be quoted in your EC outcome email – please pay close attention to this detail as it may be different than the extension date you requested.

If you have not yet submitted any work by the time you receive your outcome, please simply submit your work by the newly agreed deadline. Although Moodle may identify your work as ‘late’, the admin team and marking staff will resolve this so you needn’t worry at this stage.

If you have submitted your work in progress by the original deadline (this is the recommended approach), please pay special attention to the additional paragraph in your outcome message.

You may not know if your school uses Moodle or Turnitin yourself; your Assessment team will identify this on your behalf and will ensure the correct instructions are included in your outcome letter.

You can replace original submissions up to the deadline and beyond so by uploading your updated piece of work it will overwrite the original

You can only submit work once to Turnitin so if you have already submitted some work. contact your local assessments team with your original Turnitin submission number so they can re-open the submission box to allow a further submission by raising an enquiry in the student enquiry centre.

If you submit your updated piece of work AFTER the deadline, late penalties will apply, see here for how late penalties are calculated.

If you do decide to appeal this decision, you will be expected to provide evidence in order for the appeal to be considered.

If you would like to ask a more specific question, please do so by submitting an enquiry via the student enquiry centre where your local Assessments team will pick up your query and respond as soon as possible.

Find more information on the EC Regulation and EC Procedure here.

The Extenuating Circumstances procedure explains that only claims submitted before an Exam Board takes place in the summer will be considered by the EC panel in the timescales section.

Your claim is not eligible for consideration by an EC Panel as claims may only be submitted before an exam board has reached a decision on a student’s results. After this point the Academic Appeal procedure should be followed under the category; “Performance in assessment was affected by extenuating circumstances”

In order to submit an Appeal for consideration you must be able to provide evidence that proved your inability to have made this claim before the exam board met.

The academic appeal submitted by the student will need to demonstrate that new evidence was not, and could not have been, made available to the Board of Examiners at the time of its original decision. Any matters which could have been raised before the meeting of the Board, but, without good reason, were not raised, will not be considered in the event of an appeal.

If you would like to ask a more specific question, please do so by submitting an enquiry via the student enquiry centre where your local Assessments team will pick up your query and respond as soon as possible.

Find more information on the EC Regulation and EC Procedure here.

Your claim is not approved because the evidence provided is insufficient to support the claim of seriousness of impact.

If you are able to obtain evidence that is deemed sufficient to support your claim you can submit for further review by the EC panel without submitting an appeal.

If you do decide to appeal the decision, you will be expected to provide evidence in order for the appeal to be considered. If you would like to ask a more specific question, please do so by submitting an enquiry via the Student Enquiry Portal where your local Assessments team will pick up your query and respond as soon as possible.

I have been given a deadline prior to, or during the June exam period

As long as you submit your final coursework by this deadline (and are carrying no other reassessments), it is expected that your work will be marked and will not prevent you from graduating.

I have been given an indication that I will be submitting this work prior to, or during the August reassessment period

At the point schools come together to confirm finalist awards in June/July you will not have completed all of your assessments, therefore you will not be eligible to graduate in the summer.

If you have questions or seek further clarity on your EC outcome and its implications, please raise an enquiry via the student enquiry centre/Ask a question. Your query will be passed to the EC panel for review, however there is no guarantee your outcome can or will change.

All EC claims are very different, each outcome is decided based on multiple factors, including the nature of the situation, time of year, level of impact on each student and the assessment structure for each programme. This list of considerations can lead to some differences in the detail of outcomes offered to each student.

You may also have other reassessment activity to undertake in August. Any such reassessment would delay your opportunity to graduate.

where you are from what you are studying whether you are studying full-time or part-time and, in some cases, when you started studying your current programme.

There are also a few exceptional fees for things like placement years, mobility periods and re-assessments - more information here. You can see the fees tables for your level of study on the fees webpage under the 'Fees tables' section.

For taught students, tuition fees are charged based on course/module enrolments so only once you have enrolled onto all your courses will the full tuition fees for the academic year be displayed.

If you think your charges are incorrect Ask a question here (select 04. Fees and charges from the drop-down list).

Tuition fee instalments are set annually; please see the instalment dates.

If you start your course in January or April or are a CELE student, your instalment dates will be different. Your NottinghamHub account will reflect the instalment dates. To discuss alternative payment dates, please contact studentaccounts@nottingham.ac.uk.

The easiest way to pay tuition fees is on NottinghamHub.

Please check the frequently asked questions for Accommodation or start a Live Chat with the Accommodation team.

Helpful information about payment of your Accommodation fees can be found here.

Please allow five working days for payments made by bank transfer to show. If it hasn’t been displayed after this time, please contact tuitionbank@nottingham.ac.uk. If you made the payment through your NottinghamHub and it has not displayed within 24 hours, please contact cashiers@nottingham.ac.uk.

Once you are registered and tuition fee charges have been produced and displayed on your NottinghamHub account you can request an invoice by submitting an enquiry here (selecting Fees & Charges from the drop-down list).

Tuition Fee invoices can not be produced until your fees are showing on your NottinghamHub account.

If you are unable to print the receipt from your online account/NottinghamHub, please contact cashiers@nottingham.ac.uk

A charge notification is an email sent to all students, even if a payment has already been made or your fees will be paid by student loan, your sponsor or a scholarship.

Please ensure your evidence of sponsorship has been uploaded to your NottinghamHub account; your letter will not be accepted by email.

If you have already uploaded your sponsor letter but tuition fees remain outstanding on your account after the start of semester two, please contact us here (select 04b Sponsorship).

Find out when fees are due, what payment methods we accept, paid deposits and you can get some instructions for paying your tuition fees online.

There is guidance and information for sponsored applicants which includes how to upload your evidence of sponsorship.

If you still have unanswered tuition fee related questions, you should contact us by email.

Please do not worry if your tuition fees will be paid a few days after the due date, if your payment is likely to be delayed by more than a week past the due date please contact the Student Accounts team at studentaccounts@nottingham.ac.uk to discuss what to do next.

Tuition fee charges are raised for each academic year, not by study year. You are charged for each month you study within an academic year. Each academic year runs August to July.

For example, if you start your study in October you will be charged for 10 months, October to July, in your first year of study.

If you are on a 12 month MRes course and start in October, you will be charged for 10 months in your first year of study and 2 months in the next academic year.

If you are on a 36 month PhD course and start in October, you will be charged for 10 months in your first year of study, 12 months in the next two academic years and 2 months in the next academic year.

Tuition Fee charges can be paid in one lump sum for the whole academic year rather than instalments, if you prefer.

You can also make advance payments before the tuition fee charge is displayed on your account. There are a number of ways on how to pay, including bank transfer or Flywire - you can find information here.

If your application is successful you will receive an email outlining your award. Awards are paid by BACS into your nominated bank account details on your Nottingham Hub. Please check the disbursement dates for instalments on your Hub. You should receive the instalment three working days after the disbursement date.

For more information go to the Support Funds webpage.

Our support funds may be able to help you with your course or living costs that are not already covered by other forms of financial help. These could be everyday living costs like childcare costs or support over the summer vacation if you have nowhere else to turn to. It may also help with emergency payments to cover any unexpected financial crisis. None of the support funds are able to help with the cost of tuition fees for any student.

What we can include depends if your debt is classed as a priority or non-priority. Only priority debts will be considered when assessments are carried out.

Priority debts examples: rent arrears; council tax arrears.

Non-priority debts examples: credit card debts; bank account overdrafts.

For more information go to the Support Funds webpage.

You can only apply once in an academic year, but if your circumstances change or you have unexpected expenditure you can apply to have your application reassessed.

The Core Bursary is a grant awarded to home fee status undergraduate students, eligibility for which depends on factors including household income and the course you are attending.

The application process is straightforward - see our webpage for more information.

The deadline for applying is the last day of the academic year (see our key dates page), in order to receive your Core Bursary for that academic year.

We assess the University Core Bursary using the financial assessment carried out by Student Finance and where eligible, you just need to submit your bank details via the Nottingham Hub.

For more information please visit the core bursary webpage.

In 2024/25, the bursary payments will be made in three, approximately equal, instalments.

You can expect to receive your payments on or around 1 November 2024, 14 January 2025, 29 April 2025.

For more information please visit the bursary pages

Please note that we cannot guarantee that any additional tickets will be available for any or all ceremonies.

The Live stream event being held at the East Midlands Conference Centre. The live stream will also be available via the University of Nottingham website.

Please refer to our terms and conditions 1.2 (b) and (c).

You can request a confirmation of student status letter free of charge from the Online Store. If you need this to include your intended date of graduation please state this when placing your order. This letter can used in support of the visa application. Please note, these letters can take up to 10 working days to be available.

If you have any questions regarding your visa, please submit an enquiry and a member of the visa and immigration team will be in touch.

Please refer to Terms and Conditions 8.

Each Graduand is allocated two free tickets for their guests during registration. You must apply for the free guest tickets at the time of registration to guarantee the tickets.

We strongly advise that you do not make any travel or accommodation arrangements for guests before securing the guest tickets.

If there is still guest seating available for your ceremony once registration has closed, tickets may be available to purchase at a later date. Tickets will be limited per student and it cannot be guaranteed that extra tickets will be available for your individual ceremony.

You will be emailed regarding additional ticket sales closer to the time of release.

Full-time students who are going into thesis pending are not required to register however may need to in certain circumstances, or may choose to, for example for council tax exemption.

To register in your thesis pending period, there is a fee to pay - details are available here.

To register use the Registration in Thesis Pending Form.

Further information on registration in thesis pending can be found here.

Full-time students whose programme of study lasts for less than four years and who have completed their research, will automatically enter the thesis-pending period. If you are eligible for thesis pending, you can opt to register during that time. Registering in thesis pending may allow you to be exempt from Council Tax. You should always check with your individual Council as to their exemptions. Some sponsors of international students may also require their students to register in thesis pending. You can only register in your thesis pending period if you are a full-time student, and for a maximum of one year.

The university card team do not provide temporary student ID cards.

Go to the finance section of NottinghamHub - you will need to add your bank account details and then enrol your account in Direct Deposit. This is the final part of the process that gives the university permission to make a payment to you.

There is a add student bank account video and a student bank account PDF guide on how to add a bank account.

You only need to add your bank details to your NottinghamHub account if are receiving a stipend or bursary directly from the university. If you have a 'to do' list item to update your bank details but aren't receiving a stipend or bursary from the university, you can ignore this request.

Student Services can informally notify your School that you have a preferred name, but we can’t be sure how this will be used within your School. To let us know your preferred name please complete an enquiry and we will pass this on to a contact in your School.

We are not able to use a preferred name for your formal student record. This record must match your legal name. Preferred names will not be used in university systems or processes such as Moodle, Timetabling, or NottinghamHub.

To request an update to the official name on your student record, you’ll need to complete the name/gender update request form. As part of the form, you’ll be asked to provide evidence that supports the update being requested. Further information is available here.

The nationality field in Online Registration will be populated based on information that you supplied at the time of admission to your course at the University of Nottingham. You cannot update this field yourself.

If the information displayed in this field is not accurate, please arrange an appointment to have your passport scanned. Document scanning appointments are available here. Our offices are located at Cherry Tree Lodge, University Park (building no.13 on the University Park Map). The office is open Monday to Friday 9am - 4.30pm (we are closed for lunch 12.30 - 1.30pm).

Any queries relating to other acceptable equivalent legal documentation can be submitted hee.

Our offices are located at Cherry Tree Lodge, University Park building no.13 on the University Park Map. The office is open Monday to Friday from 9:00 am to 4:30 pm (we are closed for lunch between 12:30 - 1:30 pm). If you are not able to visit us in-person for any reason, please contact immigration-support@nottingham.ac.uk for further advice.

The Home Office aims to replace most Biometric Residence Permit (BRP) physical documents with eVisas by the start of 2025. Most physical BRP documents have an expiry date of Tuesday 31 December 2024 - this is the expiry date of the physical card, so does not necessarily mean that your immigration permission will be expiring on this date. Please refer to your visa decision email or letter to find the true end date of your visa. If you have a current BRP expiring on 31st December 2024, you should be able to create a UKVI eVisa account now to view your eVisa if you haven't already. Please see this link for more information. Note that you should retain your BRP until the end of 2024 once you have your eVisa as you may require it for travel purposes.

The Home Office will no longer be issuing replacement or new BRP cards. Non-British/Irish students will need to ensure that they have created a UKVI account to access their eVisa and link this to their travel document(s). The University is required by law to check continued Right to Study following the expiry of BRP cards on 31 December 2024. This forms part of the visa conditions with the University.